and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
more assaleen moore is a three-time
sales leader and a two times vp of sales
he advises b2b software as a service
companies and he's recently released a
sales demo course called from demo to
close more a warm welcome to the show
sir how you doing appreciate it thank
you good you
oh well all is well on this end man i
was just saying how nice and cold it is
in uh in the uk and i know you're
sitting outside right now on your
balcony for those that are listening in
cancer you're enjoying the sunshine so
very envious right now on a cold
winter's day here in the uk yeah it's
it's our winter also kind of we have we
living the dream man so we're going to
be talking all about how you can close a
whopping 50 or more of your sales demos
i'm intrigued because i want to steal
some of the tactics today and i'm sure
many of our listeners and viewers do as
well more so let's throw you in at the
deep end as we always do is it really
possible it sounds like a bit of a pipe
dream is it really possible to close 50
or more of sales demos
uh short answer is yeah
i've done it myself and i've uh i've
gotten my team to do it and everybody
that i've essentially trained right out
join in early stage startups build out a
team from scratch train them
and then one of the things i do is i
measure the performance um and so my
benchmark is 50
um if i can get them above amazing a lot
of times i do but on average 50 is the
minimum benchmark
man that's that's some real stats
there's some amazing stats so
is that something that just happens or
for anyone that's listening in is is
that something you need to aspire to i
you might be at something like 20 25 30
right now and it's something that
gradually happens or is the process
we're going to discuss today something
that you can put into play this
framework and then it's going to be 50
no questions asked
no it doesn't just happen um i think for
some industries and some companies 20 is
considered good i don't like my at least
my experience
um um 20 is extremely bad but i've
talked to
other companies where they're doing uh
you know 20 and i would ask them like
hey what's industry average and they'll
say 30 percent right um right so 30 is
considered good in their industry but on
you know if you're dealing with smb or
enterprise level deals it could you know
the numbers can tend to fluctuate
enterprise takes a lot longer to close a
deal smb is a lot quicker than an
enterprise and so you can probably see a
higher demo conversion rate typically
yeah
yeah i get that and is this on that note
before we get into i guess some of the
tactics and talk about this in a bit
more depth is this
across the board so is this anywhere
from kind of a sas product
where we or doesn't even have to be sas
but let's say we sell a monthly service
that might be anywhere from i don't know
a few hundred pounds or dollars a month
up to i don't know 10k plus a month um
is it across the board or is it limited
to a certain kind of bracket let's say
yeah i mean from at least my experience
or like my playground is sas um and so i
can only claim that number in my from my
experience
i'm sure there are things
tactic strategies that you can use
from a sales demo on the sas platform or
sas product and have it transferable to
a non-sas play right like i released my
sales program i charge a yearly
subscription i don't necessarily do
demos it's sort of my content whatever
marketing strategies i have that gets
people interested and they buy um
there's a difference if you're on the
phone and actually doing a presentation
of something um that's a whole other
animal
got it okay that's fair so before we get
into this
how much waiting in your opinion is
placed on the sales demonstration the
presentation zoom classic screen share
going through the slides
on that part of the sales process
as opposed to let's say things like the
actual lead quality itself so if you
generated the lead yourself as a sales
rep or a business owner or a marketing
is passed on to you or moving forward
through the discovery stage another
start of the pro sales process or let's
say that the closing stage and then in
between you've practiced got the demo
how much is that of the waiting of
getting the deal over the line is is
would you say is on the actual demo
itself yeah i mean if i throw out a
number it'll be too arbitrary but i
don't think it's one uh it's like oh
it's the demo it's the zoo meeting the
way you do it it's it's a little bit of
anything um sort of a little bit and a
lot of bit of everything right like
discoveries is
um definitely um
an anchor um you know if you don't do
discovery properly you can dramatically
affect negatively your demo conversion
at your win rates um the quality of the
lead also like you can get a shitty
quality lead that has zero interest in
purchasing zero like none whatsoever and
they were just forced on a call you're
not gonna close them like they're just
not their intent isn't to buy isn't
they're not even paying attention so
yeah you have those factors you know
luck has a lot to play with it also
right um but as far as what you can
control there's a lot of things that you
can control the discovery part your
tonality the questions you ask what you
show how you show how much time you
spend on it um you know
what part of the demo are you paying
attention are you spending more time on
um how you talk about the pricing all
these things go into play uh it's sort
of like a cocktail of different skill
sets
i like that and and i love cocktails so
that works well now i don't want to talk
too much about discovery because that
makes sense if marketing pass you a
shitty lead then it's your
responsibility as a business owner as a
sales rep to understand that it's poor
quality try and put them through your
sales process if they're a poor fit then
disqualify continue nurturing them
whatever makes sense for your
organization um
and if you want to learn more about
discovery we've got an episode we've got
two episodes with benjamin dennehy one
of the most is why you don't need to do
a demo and the second is how to close
inbound leads to check those out with
the uk's most hated sales trainer
benjamin dennehy now moving forward i
love him
great guy very controversial that's
probably why we we get on quite well but
he's he's an obs sales trainer you know
his his cold call openings or or golden
might i mean he gets it from sandler but
uh yeah yeah yeah i think a lot of
people know that a lot of stuff is
sandler with his own spin on it yeah
and i think most sales advice out there
even mine is
something that we've extracted from some
other source that we read or learn and
we put our own spin on it right like
bruce lee if you're a fan of bruce lee
like he you know he created his martial
arts called jeet kune do
and chu kundo was just sort of a mashup
of kung fu karate this that you know and
he called it g condor so you know i
called mine from demo to close you know
well that's it right like i mean most of
my intern without going off on too much
of a rabbit hole most of my own sales
processes and things i've either stolen
from books podcasts or guests that we've
had on the show and put my own spin on
it made it my own tested what works what
doesn't go from there yeah
so um cool man so with that said
more
the the big question the hot seat what
what goes into a winning sales demo what
do we need to consider what do we need
to put in play if we want to start
closing 50 percent of our demo yeah
so you said like discovery something
that you talked about in the past
discovery
isn't just like a part of like the call
opening right it's not like so you have
it depends right like are you getting
the lead from cold prospecting or are
you getting the lead from an inbound top
funnel marketing where they requested
them on your website or they came in
from a referral whatever it is right so
either way
wherever they're coming from you should
uh the discovery part is the most
important part of the entire demo
process i said yesterday to somebody i'm
like the discovery is the spinal cord of
the demo
um
that's a nice analogy yeah i like that
yeah i didn't steal that from anyone
that one was zombie but
it's a spinal cord of the demo which
means that discovery isn't a stage that
starts and ends
before the demo starts it's a thing that
just constantly goes throughout the
sales process after the during the demo
after the demo after onboarding et
cetera et cetera et cetera so discovery
is major um so uh
part one of like
getting really good at doing demos is
getting really good at discovery
um and for a few reasons number one
during the discovery part you're
collecting a ton of intel at least
in the beginning and based on that intel
that you're collecting
you're able then to
leverage the information later on in
demo so for example like
if you tell me um
you know like right now i have a cold
right so like if you tell me like hey
more you know
why did you buy a box of tissues i'll
tell you because i have a cold and
you'll be like okay well tell me more
about it and i'll tell you not go into
it and you're like okay and then you
have a box of tissues to sell me or some
other product for colds right like at
during the demo you'll say like hey more
you had mentioned earlier that you have
a cold because you didn't wear a sweater
when you went outside um you know do you
think having a sweater on freezing days
would be helpful like that's a discovery
question i'm like completely like
deviating away from like software itself
but like you're using discovery and then
intel that you learned earlier on the
call
um
to to talk about it on the on the demo
if you're talking specific on the demo
it's like hey prospect you know what's
the reason you're looking at our
solution or what's the reason that you
scheduled a call today
they'll say something like oh you know
we would like to increase our
conversions whatever it is and so as
you're doing the demo later on and you
have a particular feature that helps
them increase conversions you'll say
hey sam you had mentioned earlier on the
call that one of the reasons you want to
get on the demo is because you want to
increase conversions because you're not
doing it with the previous solution um
what i'm about to show you actually
tackles exactly what you're looking for
and so you start you lean in and pay
attention because
it's i'm using discovery i'm using what
you said on discovery on the demo so
discovery is really important uh
tonality is also extremely important um
i like to do this experiment a lot when
i do like workshops so let's do it i'll
do it with you actually i want you to
think of the word say the word tiny to
me t-i-n-y
tiny okay now i want you to say it again
but before you say it again i want you
to use your like in your head imagine
what tiny would look like and use your
body your arms your hands whatever it is
and then say the word tiny again
let's go for it
tiny right so if you were to close your
eyes
and you just heard that you'd be like oh
i know it all right he said tiny but the
second time you said it
i felt it more you're like tiny even
your words were small even did the
little expression yeah exactly every
time i do this everybody goes like this
when i tell somebody to say the word
huge they're like huge i'm like alright
i now say the word
huge using your body language so let's
so do it say the word huge with your
body language
huge right like so your tone of voice
changes your bod you get animated yeah
and so tonality is really important
because
when you want to
have a punch line after a feature or you
want to do a punchline after price
whatever it is tonality plays a big role
so if i want to tell them about a
feature that is um exactly what they're
looking for let's say i want to use the
words this is exactly what you're
looking for if i'm using tonality i'll
say hey sam
you had mentioned that you want to
increase conversions
what i'm about to show you is exactly
what you're looking for
and so you pay attention because of the
tone of voice that's another thing
that's that's really helpful on yeah
let's let's dive into those two points
before we crack on so yeah discovery
essentially what you're saying is it
should be from the start and ongoing
throughout your demo asking no it never
ends it never ends
relating back to them as and when
relevant i guess with the the software
or whatever you're demonstrating to your
prospect reeling that back into the
detail you've dove into with the
questions you've asked so tonality
that's an interesting one not something
we've talked about a great deal on the
show which is interesting so
it's again i'm i'm curious is this how
important is this from from what you've
seen more and some of the reps you've
trained or perhaps your own experience
how how much does it really affect um i
guess the buyer's ability to trust you
and ultimately go ahead yeah
well i mean if you're using a software
like dog.io or refract or whatever it is
there's no metric that measures tonality
there's metrics that
measure question asking
and there's
metrics within gong that measures how
many words you're using and what type of
words et cetera but there's nothing
about tonality um so for me to say oh
yeah it affects the demo by 20 like
that's so arbitrary yeah i just know
when i listen to demos and the person is
monotone
i zone out because if you're monotone
there's nothing differentiating what you
said from the beginning of what you said
versus at you know the end just like the
word tiny or exactly or huge or whatever
it is um
you know when people uh and this is like
classic uh you know old school sales
people like yeah you want to tell
somebody that they're getting a sick
deal you lower your voice like by the
way i want to let you know that if you
sign up to like these are little tactics
that worked back in the day right um i
think nowadays people can
smell that type of tactic so just be
animated when you talk um
interesting you mentioned sandler
earlier because i'm pretty sure he had a
um he had a saying that cells is like a
broadway show put on by actors i've
probably butchered the saying but it was
something along those lines
um it's literally in the book you can't
teach a kid to ride a bike at a seminar
um
now
that's that's interesting and benjamin
when he's been on the show has kind of
talked about certain bits and pieces
like that so
yeah i get what you're saying so
essentially if you're if you're a
monotone if you're just speaking in the
same tone of voice it's probably going
to send your prospects to to sleep yeah
it's like hey um prospect you mentioned
that you had a feature uh you had a
reason that you wanted to sign up and
this is exactly what you're looking for
let me show you and so this is what
it's like you know like where's the
highs and lows like some songs are
really good and really catchy because
they use it like the beatles for example
i don't know who listens to beatles but
like other musicians coldplay whatever
it is they all have you know
really good songs aren't like
static and linear they're sort of you
know they're fluctuating they spin off a
little bit
um it's rhythm right that's why we like
music it's rhythm it's catchy and so if
you're if sales demos is just like music
it's you have a rhythm in your tone of
voice you have rhythm and the words you
use how fast you're saying the words how
slow you're saying the words
you know if you watch like the wolf of
wall street like i know everybody like
there's a lot of people that don't like
him because he stole money fine whatever
but there is truth to what he's saying
about tone of voice if you watch
leonardo dicaprio he's like what i'm
about to show you is the best thing when
you know he uses this whole body
language it yeah you feel it across the
phone it's convincing yeah yeah yeah you
do that um let's put a spanner in the
works as an opposition to that
that note
what about if the prospect on the other
end of the zoom cool the meeting
whatever
is
is very monotone so if they're the kind
of person that comes across just quite
steady perhaps quite meek quite quiet
and then you're super active super hyper
super enthusiastic would that not scare
them off um i know traditional sales
training says you should perhaps
consider mirroring your prospective
matchups yeah
i think you got to feel them out like
i'll try to break the ice with the
prospect so part of breaking the ice is
doing your research before the demo if
you can find out their interests like
personal interests like maybe go on
instagram or facebook and see if what
they like what they you know that's one
area go to linkedin see their activity
what do they engage in what would they
comment
find anything that you can about them
intel literally intel um this way if you
find that they love i don't know whiskey
right and they're talking monotone
you could say something like oh by the
way like this is gonna sound really
stalkerish but um i always do research
on my prospects before demo and i did it
on you and i noticed that you have a
huge whiskey collection
like use that and and that can break ice
a little bit and so they may open up if
they if they talk about whiskey in a
monotone way but it's still a passion of
theirs then i'd consider to just match
them
but some people by the way like i've met
developers
that are really monotone they're not
enthusiastic they're not you know super
animated and they they love being around
people that are like that because
it's something they they sort of uh
admire
and some some of them don't some of them
like like hey you're too much i'm not
saying be like overly excited you know
on a call
enthusiasm could be in different ways
you could be passionate about something
but you don't have to yell about it
right
got it makes makes sense so with those
two things in mind what what's what's
kind of next on the on the process of of
your
ideal sales demo
yeah so we said discovery tonality
um
tailoring is really important so like
where did you buy your last suit
where did i yeah
let's have a think i haven't bought one
recently i actually well we got married
a couple months back so that was rented
from a company i believe called suits
direct but we had to rent mine and then
all the groomsmen and all the guys
involved and then before that it was
probably a cheap one actually it was
like a hundred quid suit from next but i
got that about six years ago so it was
off the rack right
yeah i think i had to get measured up
for both of them but it wasn't like uh i
mean back then i was i was young i
didn't have much money so it's like 100
suit job
yes i mean you can either buy a suit off
the rack right you can go like we have
macy's or or nordstroms or whatever it
is or uh if suits apply also but
somebody's not really off the rack you
can buy it off the rack and all you
gotta take it to a tailor and she'll
make some adjustments and you're good to
go or
you can take it to like a company like
indochito or suit supply and get a suit
custom made they measure you from head
to toe and you have a suit made for more
a soup made for salmon soup made for
this person once more premium it costs
more one costs less and you have you
know and so treat your demos like not
not a suit off the rack but a
custom-made suit
yeah um and so again it goes back to
discovery that's why i say it's a spinal
cord um because if you're if you're
after you've done discovery
and you're let's just say you find out
that the prospect only has one
particular main pain point like hey my
pain point is x and my goal is y for
example
don't spend time on the demo showing
them anything other than x and y
like right because they're they're there
for one or two things
if you have enough time on the demo and
you think that other things that would
help them find show to them but
otherwise like when you're doing a demo
and it's 30 minutes long 45 minutes long
60 minutes long and you're spending time
showing them all these features they're
not going to walk away remembering
everything you said it's impossible
think about the time that you first
joined the company and you first learned
the product how long did it take to
actually learn the in and out of the
product now you're doing a demo of the
prospect and you expect them to know as
much as you it's it's not possible
they're gonna extract a very small
percentage so don't overwhelm them
tailor the demo only focus on uh the
things that
completely align to what they're trying
to accomplish
i'm really enjoying your analogies more
so far
yeah i love the comparison and the
spinal cord backbone for uh for
discovery as well so
yeah i like that tailoring it to what i
guess to what the the prospect actually
cares about so ultimately these are the
problems i've got right now i don't care
about the 100 features that your demo or
your software has because i just want to
know how it solves my problems how it
makes my life better right rather than
listening to a sales rep drone on about
the same old features
right
so
you mentioned something there in terms
of kind of focusing on the pain points
is there this might be something else
you want to talk about but later but is
there a kind of perfect time as you
mentioned demos can drag on
is there ideal time limit for a demos
and appreciate again this can be random
this can be dependent on what you're
doing but have you found people can only
focus attention for a certain amount of
time without falling asleep yeah so it's
tricky right like if you're doing a
i always say like if you're doing a a
60-minute demo or 30 minute 45 minute
demo and you and the prospect are vibing
right like they're just crazy chemistry
and you're talking
and
you're bleeding over the time they don't
have to leave you don't have to leave i
say milk it
um
not all the time because it's a yeah
it's a lot of time like i did a demo
with somebody once
um
it was a 60 a 45 minute blocked off time
demo
right
we uh
did the demo and we were just like crazy
like we were talking as if we're best
friends the demo lasted for three hours
wow i hope they bought they bought they
referred and they text me from time to
time they they followed me on on
facebook they you know every you know
like they saw i had corona like at the
time they're like hope you feel better
and we're just in touch
that's what you call a raving fan
and whenever they have a question like
this is sort of like not the greatest
thing because now they're on customer
success aside they're no longer on the
sale side they reach out to me
right because they just trust me more
but if i have if i tell them like hey
man like i need i need another customer
to sign up with us you know anybody
i can have that type of conversation so
freely because i i milked the demo with
them because we just had a good
conversation otherwise no i mean like if
you do a demo on me i'm the type of
person that i don't care about the
weather i don't care about uh
where you're like not you specifically
like
a sales rep it's like oh where are you
from and no oh
they try to build i don't like that
i personally don't like it i don't care
for it i i'm very busy so show me
exactly what i need to see um
and so i'm the type of person that keep
the demo if it's 60 minutes so be it but
make sure that 60 minutes is all about
business uh less about trying to build
rapport with me um
so is there a sweet
spot for timing i don't think so i
experimented right like i've done demos
that are 30 minutes long and it was
great because you're able to to go
through the next step on the next one
which you'd be able to get like eight
demos ten dollars in a day the downside
to that is you're rushing through the
demo a lot of times because the prospect
has more questions you want to show them
more things whatever it is um and so i
stretch it for 45 minutes
and then i create a 20 30 minute buffer
time so if we bleed over it's fine but
i'm a big fan of giving back time on
demos
yeah time is the best gift so
essentially we're saying as long as it
needs
to an extent right like
if if the prospect has a hard stop
then keep it at a hard stop um if you've
covered everything you need to cover
cover and it's been you have a 60 minute
demo and you've done it in 30 minutes
you don't need another 30 minutes
give it give it back 30 minutes yeah
yeah i get that um you raised an
interesting point there more so you said
like for example you you don't care
about the small talk whether what's
going on i'm i'm quite similar if i'm
talking to a sales rep i want to get to
the point can they help me or not
ultimately yeah um do they understand
what i need and can they get me from a
to b
so is that does that just go back to
what we were talking about before doing
a bit of research before you're cool or
does that come in kind of when you're
talking discovery and you might
get an idea of what they're like as a
person and if they want to do the small
talk or not have you got any quick tips
on on that front
yeah like if if you should spend time
like doing like building rapport and
break that ice
yeah basically to get a quick i guess uh
an idea of what your prospect's like and
if they actually give a about
talking about the weather or if they
just want to crack on and get into the
nuts and bolts of how you're going to
fix that problem with your with your
demo
yeah so i mean part of it is just like
you know being um
just like
aware self-aware like when you're on the
demo like you should you'll you'll get a
sense of how the pro like hey how are
you today like he'll be like um okay
like he's short right or she's short or
they're like i'm great how are you like
if you're getting that sort of vibe back
from the prospect then you know where
you can play around
um but doing the research the demo prep
is so important
because you saved so much time the worst
thing you can do when you get on a demo
my i mean there's a lot of worse things
you can do but one of the worst things
you can do is you get on a demo you tell
the pros like cool so tell me about your
business
like did you not do research
like what do you do what's your title at
such such company like that stuff that
type of stuff you can do research on and
so
i've had demos where someone demoed me
they're like tell me about your business
you know and and so my i responded i
gave him the answer but i i wasn't
enthusiastic i was like you know short i
was like yeah you know we're able to we
do this we do that um anyways and like i
push them off
so if i get on demo and someone says hey
more i noticed that um you know i
appreciate you jumping on the call today
i notice that you do x and y and z
you're doing it for about three years um
you know and then bring up something
that you've noticed something else i
noticed that you also recently released
a podcast with with sam about xyz um
curious and then ask a question that's
the way to build rapport um
if you're doing your homework and people
notice that you've done your homework
they'll be way more open to communicate
with you again if you do your own
research right you find out on instagram
that they love or tiktok or facebook
that they love whiskey they have a crazy
collection
bring it up you know like
you don't have to bring it up in the
beginning of the call you can bring it
up in the middle of the call or they
whatever it is right um
so like i knew for example i did a demo
with somebody
and i found out that that person was
actually a celebrity
somewhat of a celebrity
and i was like okay and that the
research that i did i found out they
have like six kids
yeah right i was like okay this is
pretty demo okay so i'm on a demo and
i'm like okay they have six kids so they
love children it looks like it seems
like
yeah or something like that
so and i was working i've been working
from home so when i got on the demo i'm
like hey i appreciate you jumping on the
call by the way just want to like throw
out a disclaimer if you hear a baby in
the background pay no attention that's
my son
and i i threw that in because i know
they have kids and they're like oh how
old is he and then we talked a little
bit about that right so nice just subtle
things it's very subtle research yeah
yeah cool that makes sense man so this
might be a later part of your demo um
tips but how important is storytelling
because i know you've shared quite a few
stories and some relevant ideas and yeah
some good tips so far how how how big a
part is kind of building a story whether
that's sharing a case study of a similar
client or relating something back that
might be useful to your prospect
what do you think yeah storytelling is
is is huge um i mean
think about like i always
talk about this um
like kids children a two-year-old
two-year-olds they have
no
uh folk they can't focus on one thing
they're all over the place right but for
whatever reason there's a ton of books
that are published for children and
children are able to sit and read
through it like my son is all over the
place but i take a book and i read to
him he pays attention
how's that possible if they're so
distracted and you know add whatever you
want to call it and so the authors of
these books found a way to crack
the lack of attention for children and
so they write really good stories they
simplify things and so
if that works for children even more so
it could work for
prospects on the demo and so
storytelling is huge i'll give you an
example um
this is like a couple years ago i saw
into a prospect and they were on the
fence about switching from the
competitor to our solution
and they're like yeah you know i've been
using this competitor for seven plus
years or like i asked how long have you
been using competitor like oh seven plus
years and so clearly they were hesitant
of like switching over and so i was like
let me just tell you a story and so the
story i told them was like a true story
i was like
i had my first car lease
and my my car release my car didn't have
a camera rear view camera so i drove for
for a few months and i had to
take it into the shop to get oil change
change tires whatever it is and so in
the meantime i borrowed my sister's car
that had a rear view camera so when i
reverse i can look at the camera
and so i did that for a couple of days
and you know it was like a game changer
like wow i can reverse without training
back when i got my car back
and i went to reverse what do you think
i did and that's like literally a
question i asked the prospect and like
oh you reverse and you you know
you almost hit a car like yeah i always
hit a car because i defaulted to look at
the stereo which is where the camera
would typically be and i was so you said
i reversed and i almost hit a car i'm
like and that's just having a uh my
sister's car for two days
you have a software for seven years and
you expect
to want to switch over and for it to be
exactly the same so i use this story
to make a point uh it's a storytelling
is huge
yeah it sounds like that also
shifts to give them another point of
view as well 100 which which i like yeah
if you're going over features right like
don't tell them about what the feature
is and what it does tell them a story
about it like
using discovery hey you mentioned
earlier that you're having trouble uh
getting your team to utilize the
software because so and so and so so
prospect imagine this case scenario and
then go through a story or hey prospect
i had a another client that had the
exact same scenario as you they had
about five employees
create a story use a story you don't
necessarily have to show physical use
cases you could just use a use case from
your experience
nice
nice well we've covered some good ground
already so we've gone over so far kind
of discovery we've gone over tonality
we've gone over certainly tailoring kind
of thinking about time durations we
talked about um storytelling at fifth
point are there any other big hitters
that we need to consider more before we
talk about wrapping things up
yeah i mean there's a lot right but like
um i think pricing is is an important
area i think a lot of reps
are not confident on the pricing side um
and because of that they rush through
pricing
okay and they should spend a lot of time
on pricing
they try to rush it they're like hey
this is the plan or not they they talk
first i think in pricing you have to
slow down a lot you have to feel very
comfortable in that area um and you
should shut up after you talk about the
plan so hey sam earlier on the call you
mentioned xyz based on what i showed you
you said that this is a fit for you
here are plans
don't say anything
um i think reps have a an issue of uh
awkward silences or or you know they
just try to like
control too much but if silence is a
game changer even after you show a
feature
if you're showing a game changer of a
feature stay quiet
so my tip for reps is wait three to six
seconds
minimum after switching from one topic
within the demo to another if you're
talking about pricing and you've gone
over the plans and the pricing after
you've gone over them
wait longer than three to six seconds
how long you should wait until the net
the prospect talks first
it's gonna be very awkward in the
beginning
yep
yep easier said than done i guess it's
one of those things you've got to keep
working on yep
okay and
well again this is some of these
questions i appreciate they're going to
vary from sector to sector now
where abouts in a demo do you feel
pricing should be should it be somewhere
perhaps towards the end once you've
done your discovery once you've gone
through kind of the relevant features
and benefits that attack your
prospects goals their pain points etc
perhaps you've shared a couple of
stories some case studies is then the
time for pricing before the end or
should it be brought up right at the
start or what you thought
i mean i generally default to showing it
talking about price at the end of the
demo so after i've shown everything and
i've confirmed you know this is what is
aligned to what they're looking for then
i'll talk about pricing then i talk
about next steps and onboarding or
onboarding and then next steps um but
i've experimented i've done it where
i'll show a prospect a feature and i'll
say something like and by the way this
is on our xyz plan
and i'll say that throughout the demo
and so i'm sort of priming them so by
the time we get to the plans they're not
like oh what the hell you know like i've
already talked about it um
sometimes i talk about in the beginning
right like if you're doing a if you're
doing discovery at the beginning of the
demo
and
you find out that the prospect is using
a competitor of yours but your
competitor is the cheapest one on the
market like stupid cheap like pretty
much free that you know
with common sense that if they're going
from like a 10 solution per month
software to a 300 400 500 per month that
price is gonna be such a elephant in the
room and so it would be stupid to avoid
talking about price until the end so you
could say something like hey sam i know
you mentioned that you're using your
competitor
xyz i'm familiar with them they're only
about like 10 bucks a month right right
well i want to let you know like if you
look at our pricing and then i'll pull
up the pricing
it's more of a premium plan to the
competitor
and i'll shut up and this is the
beginning of the call i want to know the
reaction if they're like oh well no no
no we can't like okay curious like or
you know if you found a solution that
does exactly what you're looking for but
they are around this price is that a
deal breaker for you yes okay well then
you know
i don't think that would be a fit that's
the stuff no it would be a deal breaker
okay they're not going to continue but
if i know
i mean like that's for me that's an
indicator of bringing up price early on
if i know that they're using something
that's pretty much free or
ridiculously cheap
pricing will be an issue for them so i
want to bring it up early yeah so it's
almost it's almost kind of using
experience using common sense checking
out what they're on right now if if you
don't know asking and then just saying
look
full transparency our pricing is kind of
3x what you're paying right now whatever
it is um even if we can tackle your
goals get the job done um do what you're
looking for would you be prepared to
invest that much and if they say no way
then
disqualify them out yeah i mean i would
even before disqualifying them out i'd
say like dig a little deeper but like
you know no way like how like you know
have you have you considered like how
big like you'd want to find out how big
their problem is before even talking
about price all right like so like hey
what's the reason you're looking for x
oh the reason is x y z okay um well
what's the impact of that or like you
know
tell me more about it unwrap the uh
unravel the
the onion or whatever you call peel back
the onion the layers of the onion you
want to find out the impact of the
problem that they're dealing with um
sometimes they have a problem but it's
not that big of a problem not enough for
them to pay more uh
and so
one thing i i uh
uh everyone talks about like you'll see
on linkedin like active listening
active listening is a sales skill that
everybody should have sure that's
important i call um and the
reason why i think there's uh proactive
listening is way more impactful
so proactive listening is like reading
in between the lines so for example
let's do an experiment
ask me how my day was
how was your day sir
it's okay
what what what sentiment am i giving off
like what's my vibe
sounds like you don't want to talk about
that much
right it doesn't sound like it was a
great that's you proactively listening
you're reading in between the laundry
paying attention to my tone of voice i
said the word okay i didn't say great i
didn't say good i didn't say fantastic i
said okay so that's proactive listening
so you know that this person had a tough
day
right so
an example of how you can use this on a
demo or a discovery slash dab because i
like to do disc again discovery is the
spinal cord sure
if you ask the prospect what's the
reason you're looking to leave the
competitor and the prospect says the
reason we're looking to leave the
competitors every time we reach out to
customer support they give us the
runaround they wait three days to give
us a response it's
nuts we can't handle it anymore so an
active listener will say this person
clearly needs really good customer
support that's what they want a
proactive listener says wait a minute
why do they have to reach out to
customer support so often that it's
causing them to look for another
solution
and so they'll ask that hey prospect you
mentioned that you're reaching out to
customer support you know every time you
reach out to them they're giving you the
run around and blah blah blah blah
curious like why do you have to reach
out to them so often
and many times
by asking that level of that type of
question the prospect will say
something like we're trying to achieve x
or trying to do why whatever it is and
that's the real reason that they're
looking for it and the only way you're
able to find that out as a sales rep is
by proactively listening paying
attention to what was not explicitly
said by the prospect that's a very
powerful skill set to have
because if you're
you know if you're doing the demo and
you're showing them a feature and you're
asking for feedback and they're giving
you a surface level response it's your
job to sort of get a little bit more
curious like are they telling me exactly
what they're feeling or are they sort of
beating around the bush so that's really
that's an important skill set
yeah having that i guess intense level
of curiosity
and not taking everything for face value
always digging a bit deeper like you
said to understand kind of why it's an
issue what the impact is
um and if that's a problem they actually
want to solve i get it
cool um yeah some good points about
pricing there in terms of kind of
understanding early and then perhaps
showing it later if it's relevant
all right so
some good crown covered is the is there
any other stages before we need to look
to wrap the demo up and do we ask for
the business do they ask us to go ahead
because i know we've had different
guests on and
from from sales backgrounds that have
said there's various different ways to
to get the deal done um some say you ask
for the sale others say you don't or is
there another step more before we even
get to that
yeah i mean there's definitely different
variations i like in my course one of
the things i i say early on is like
there is no one way of doing things in
sales so if anyone tells you this is the
only way of doing it run um so what what
i'm saying is one variation you'll hear
me say another variation so it depends
if you're dealing again with like an
enterprise love deal that takes a lot
longer to close
maybe six months on average 12 months on
average and you're doing the first demo
don't ask for the business because you
probably won't get it in the beginning
there's too many other stakeholders but
if you're dealing with an smb and
they're the only decision maker and
they're the only influencer and
everything you show them is exactly what
they're looking for then at the end of
the call ask for the close and one of
the ways you can ask for the clothes is
simply asking hey sam you know i showed
you you asked for x i showed you why
based on what i showed you
do you see yourself using this software
yes okay
so i guess my only question sam is like
what do i
what do i need to do to earn your
business today
just ask it
and many times like all right well i'm
ready to sign up right now right uh and
sometimes after showing the pricing the
plans
and you stay quiet
the prospect will say all right what's
next
right and then that could be an
indicator of interest so
yes sometimes ask for it sometimes don't
ask for it um you'll you'll need you
know if you have many times you'll have
like a prospect that schedules a demo
with like three or four other people
within their team but only that one
person was able to make it
if those other people are influencers
maybe it's worth doing a secondary demo
or third demo with those people as well
before asking for the close
yeah yeah i like it and i appreciate if
you're if you're running large-scale
enterprise deals like you say there
might be other stakeholders you might
need to organize several other meetings
along the chain so yeah it might not
always make sense to us for the business
right now perhaps the next step is
saying look we need to get
the head of marketing we need to get the
finance director we need to get the
intelligence officer on the next call so
how do we facilitate that likewise if
it's a smaller deal then it might make
sense to us for the business right now
um cool so we've we've gone through a
great process here more is this the
framework to get 50 or plus of your
sales demos are there any final
considerations that we need to
yeah there's a lot more right like
i can only say so much within the time
that we have right like i appreciate
that so so
part of all this is also measuring
yourself there's
also the small details in between each
framework um there's a lot more to this
but that that's that's a lot of it
nice dude and um yeah by all means if
you've got anything you want to point us
listeners to we can always put that in
the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing
so with that sir
i want to say thanks very much more for
running us through how to close 50 or
more of your demos been been really
interesting and useful for myself and
i'm sure everyone tuning in do tell us
more about how everyone listening or
watching can learn from you how they can
connect with you and the best way to get
in touch
yeah so i mean um i'm on linkedin like
more than i'm
breathing oxygen like so you can find me
on linkedin
yeah linkedin for slash infor slash more
australian you probably have my name
written down they won't remember how to
respond
um i have a podcast called sas talks
from lee to close there are five minutes
or less an episode uh i have a monthly
special guest every month i had nick
saguelski on i had ethan parker on him
and i have a few other people on every
month um and then i released um the demo
course i talked about from demo to close
fdtc um you can find it on demo to
close.com
nice one dude and like i said we'll put
all those links over in the show notes
at businessgrowth.marketing with that i
want to thank you once again more
enjoyed the chat save here man
appreciate it
cheers dude as always if you enjoyed
today's show do hit that subscribe
button we interview business leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable marketing tips to grow your
business grow your sales grow your
revenue with that we should catch you on
the next one